[[!meta title="Accessibility"]]

Tails and the GNOME desktop include assistive technologies to support users
with various impairments and special needs, and to interact with common
assistive devices.

[[!toc]]

<h1 id="menu">Accessibility menu</h1>

You can activate several assistive technologies, like a screen reader or large
text, from the accessibility menu in the top bar, the
[[!img lib/accessibility.png alt="" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
icon that looks like a person.

[[!img desktop/accessibility.png link="no" class="screenshot"
alt="Accessibility menu with the following options, all disabled
by default: High Contrast, Zoom, Large Text, Screen Reader, Screen Keyboard,
Visual Alters, Sticky Keys, Slow Keys, Bounce Keys, and Mouse Keys"]]

<h1 id="shortcuts">Keyboard shortcuts</h1>

<table>
<tr><td>Turn screen reader on or off</td><td>Alt+[[!img lib/start.png class="symbolic" link="no" alt="Super"]]+S</td></tr>
<tr><td>Turn zoom on or off</td><td>Alt+[[!img lib/start.png class="symbolic" link="no" alt="Super"]]+8</td></tr>
<tr><td>Zoom in</td><td>Alt+[[!img lib/start.png class="symbolic" link="no" alt="Super"]]+=</td></tr>
<tr><td>Zoom out</td><td>Alt+[[!img lib/start.png class="symbolic" link="no" alt="Super"]]+-</td></tr>
<tr><td>Window resize menu</td><td>Alt+Space</td></tr>
</table>

To learn about all keyboard shortcuts in GNOME visit [GNOME Help: Useful
keyboard shortcuts](https://help.gnome.org/users/gnome-help/stable/shell-keyboard-shortcuts.html.en)
or use the *Settings* application in Tails:

1. Choose **Applications&nbsp;▸ Settings**.

1. In the *Settings* application, choose **Keyboard&nbsp;▸ Keyboard
   Shortcuts&nbsp;▸ View and Customize Shortcuts**.

To access the accessibility menu using the keyboard:

1. Press <span class="keycap">Ctrl+Alt+Tab</span> to move the keyboard
   focus to the top bar.

1. Use the arrow keys on the keyboard to select the accessibility menu.

1. Press <span class="bold">Enter</span> to open the menu.

1. Use the up and down arrow keys to select items in
   the menu.

1. Press <span class="bold">Space</span> to toggle the selected
   item.

1. Press <span class="bold">Esc</span> to close the menu.

<h1 id="reader">Screen reader</h1>

To hear screen elements spoken to you, turn on the **Screen Reader** from the
accessibility menu ([[!img lib/accessibility.png alt=""
class="symbolic" link="no"]]).

[GNOME Help: *Orca* Screen Reader](https://help.gnome.org/users/orca/stable/)

<h1 id="keyboard">Screen keyboard</h1>

If you prefer a pointing device over the keyboard, turn on the **Screen
Keyboard** from the accessibility menu ([[!img lib/accessibility.png
alt="" class="symbolic" link="no"]]).

<div class="tip">

<p>You can also use the screen keyboard to protect against hardware keyloggers
by avoiding to use the actual keyboard.</p>

<p>If a keylogger has been physically installed on the computer, your
passwords, personal information, and other data typed on the keyboard could be
stored and accessed by someone else, even if you are using Tails.</p>

<p>For an example, see
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6JJo8qCYE8M">KeeLog: KeyGrabber
forensic keylogger getting started</a>.</p>

<p>Keyloggers are more likely on public computers, in internet cafés or
libraries, and on desktop computers, where a device is easier to hide.</p>

<p>[[Reducing risks when using untrusted
computers|doc/about/warnings/computer]]</p>

</div>

<div class="bug">

<p>The screen keyboard doesn't work in a <i>Root Terminal</i>. ([[!tails_ticket
18061]])</p>

<p>Instead, open a <i>Terminal</i> and execute the following command to log in
as root:</p>

<p class="command">sudo -i</p>

</div>

<div class="bug">

<p>The screen keyboard doesn't work in <i>Kleopatra</i>, <i>Electrum</i>, and
<i>KeePassXC</i>. ([[!tails_ticket 19695]])</p>

<p>Instead, you can use the screen keyboard in the <i>Text Editor</i> first,
then cut and paste into one of these applications.</p>

</div>
