[[!meta title="Reporting an error using WhisperBack"]]

Reporting errors is a great way of helping us improve Tails.

The more effectively you report an error, the more likely we are
to fix it.

[[!toc levels=2]]

<h1 id="known">Check if the error is already known</h1>

You might already find help on our [[support pages|support]].

<h1 id="whisperback">Reporting an error using <i>WhisperBack</i></h1>

*WhisperBack* allows you to report errors anonymously from inside Tails. Reports
are sent to us encrypted and over the Tor network.

<div class="note">

<p>Even if we are not able to reply to every report, we analyze all reports to
improve Tails.</p>

</div>

1. To start *WhisperBack*, choose **Applications**&nbsp;▸ **System
   Tools**&nbsp;▸ **WhisperBack Error Reporting**.

1. *WhisperBack* helps you write a useful error report.

   - **Tell us exactly how to make the error happen again.**

     Our team needs to be able to reproduce the error to know whether we really
     fixed it.

   - **Describe the error in detail.**

     Write down the exact error messages.

   - **Write clearly and precisely.**

1. You can also enter an email address.

   Giving us an email address allows us to ask you for more information if we
   need it. This is the case for the vast majority of reports.

   But giving us your email address also makes it possible for your email
   provider to know that you are using Tails, if we write back to you.

1. Optionally, enter your OpenPGP public key, if you want us to write back to
   you in an encrypted email.

   You can specify either:

   - A **key ID**, if your key is available on <https://keys.openpgp.org/>

   - A **link to the key**, if your key is available elsewhere on the web

   - A **public key block**, if your key is not publicly available

1. You can have a look at the **Technical Details** that are included in your
   report. They give us information about your hardware, your version of Tails,
   and all the errors that happened since you started Tails.

1. Click **Send** to send your report.

<h1 id="offline">If you cannot connect to the Internet or the Tor network</h1>

If you cannot connect to the Internet or the Tor network, you cannot send us
your error report using *WhisperBack*.

<div class="next">

<p>See also: [[Troubleshooting Wi-Fi not working|anonymous_internet/no-wifi]]</p>

</div>

To send us your error report by email instead:

1. Plug in another USB stick to be able to open your report outside of Tails.

1. To start *WhisperBack*, choose **Applications**&nbsp;▸ **System
   Tools**&nbsp;▸ **WhisperBack Error Reporting**.

1. In parallel, choose **Applications**&nbsp;▸ **Accessories**&nbsp;▸ **Text
   Editor** to open the *Text Editor*.

1. In the **Technical Details** tab, copy everything from the **Headers**
   section and paste it into the *Text Editor*.

1. In the **Technical Details** tab, copy everything from the **Debugging
   Information** section and paste it into the *Text Editor*.

1. Save your report from the *Text Editor* to the other USB stick.

1. Restart on your regular operating system.

1. Send your report to
   [[support@tails.net|about/contact#support]].

<h1 id="debian">Reproducing the error in Debian (for advanced users)</h1>

It is very useful for us to know if your error only affects Tails or also
affects Debian, on which Tails is based.

Doing so takes much more time so, in doubt, report your error as instructed
earlier and wait for guidance from us.

- If your error also affects Debian *stable*, then the problem must be fixed
  in Debian directly and not in Tails.

- If your error affects Debian *stable* but not Debian *testing*, then the problem
  might have been solved already in Debian.

Debian also distributes *live* images that you can install on a
USB stick using the same installation procedure as for installing Tails.

Debian stable
-------------

Live images for Debian stable, on which Tails is based, are available on:

<https://cdimage.debian.org/images/release/current-live/amd64/iso-hybrid/>

Download the file that ends with *amd64-gnome.iso* to have the GNOME desktop.

Debian testing
--------------

Live images for the testing version of Debian are available on:

<https://cdimage.debian.org/images/weekly-live-builds/amd64/iso-hybrid/>

Download the file that ends with *amd64-gnome.iso* to have the GNOME desktop.
