[[!meta title="Recording usability testing"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

<a id="cheese"></a>

Recording with a camera using <span class="application">Cheese</span>
=====================================================================

Recording the screen with an external camera has the following
advantages over recording with a screencast:

- Recording a whole session, even if the user restarts Tails.
- Saving the video directly to your computer and not relying on the
  computer used for the tests.

You can use a document camera. The [Ziggi-HD Plus by
IPEVO](https://www.ipevo.com/) works fine from Tails.

1. Move the <span class="guilabel">AF</span> switch of the camera to <span class="guilabel">C</span> to have continuous autofocus.

1. Install *Cheese*:

   <p class="pre command">apt install cheese ffmpegthumbnailer</p>

1. In *Cheese*, choose **[[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="Menu" class=symbolic link=no]]</span>&nbsp;▸
   Preferences** and adjust the video resolution to find a good trade-off
   between resolution and fluidity.

   On my ThinkPad X250, I use 1280 × 720.

1. Adjust the orientation of the camera to capture as much of the screen as
   possible while not obfuscating the light of sight of the participant.

<a id="ffmpeg"></a>

FFmpeg
======

When *Cheese* is not reliable enough, *FFmpeg* can be an alternative.

1. Check that you have enough disk space.

   You need around 1.5 GB per hour of recording.

1. Configure the sound settings of GNOME to record audio from the webcam.

   Test and adjust the recording level. Around 75% should be fine.

1. Execute the following command:

       ffmpeg -f pulse -i default -f v4l2 -video_size 1280x720 -i /dev/video0 record-$(date +%F-%H%M%S).mp4

<a id="screencast"></a>

Recording a screencast
======================

Recording the screen with a [[screencast|doc/sensitive_documents/screenshot_and_screencast]] has the following advantages over
recording with an external camera:

- Better image quality
- Lighter setup
