[[!meta title="Managing passwords using KeePassXC"]]

Using the [<span class="application">KeePassXC</span>](https://keepassxc.org/)
password manager you can:

- Store many passwords in an encrypted database which is protected by
  a single passphrase of your choice.

- Always use different and stronger passwords, since you only have to
  remember a single passphrase to unlock the entire database.

- Generate very strong random passwords.

- Generate one-time verification codes for two-factor authentication.

For more detailed instructions on how to use *KeePassXC*, refer to the official
[KeePassXC User Guide](https://keepassxc.org/docs/KeePassXC_UserGuide).

[[!toc]]

<h1 id="create">Creating and saving a password database</h1>

Follow these steps to create a new password database and save it in the
Persistent Storage for use in future working sessions.

To learn how to create a Persistent Storage, read our
[[documentation on the Persistent Storage|persistent_storage]].

0. When starting Tails, unlock the Persistent Storage.

0. In Tails, choose **Applications**&nbsp;▸ **Persistent Storage**.

0. Verify that the Persistent Folder feature is turned on.

0. To start <span class="application">KeePassXC</span>, choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
   <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guisubmenu">Accessories</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guimenuitem">KeePassXC</span></span>.

0. To create a new database, click <span class="guilabel">Create new database</span>.

0. Continue with the defaults settings in the configuration screens **General
   Database Information** and **Encryption Settings**.

0. The database is encrypted and protected by
   a passphrase. In the configuration screen **Database Credentials**:

   * Specify a passphrase of your choice in the **Enter password** text box.
   * Type the same passphrase again in the **Confirm password** text box.
   * Click **Done**.

0. Save the database as *Passwords.kdbx* in the */home/amnesia/Persistent* folder.

<h1 id="restore">Restoring and unlocking the password database</h1>

Follow these steps to unlock the password database saved in the
Persistent Storage from a previous working session.

0. When starting Tails, unlock the Persistent Storage.

0. In Tails, choose **Applications**&nbsp;▸ **Accessories**&nbsp;▸
   **KeePassXC**.

0. If you have a database named *Passwords.kdbx* in your *Persistent* folder,
   <span class="application">KeePassXC</span> automatically displays a dialog to
   unlock that database.

   Enter the passphrase for this database and click **Unlock**.

0. If you enter a wrong passphrase the following error message
   appears:

   <p class="code">Error while reading the database: Invalid credentials were
   provided, please try again.</p>

<h1 id="settings">Storing your <i>KeePassXC</i> settings in the Persistent Storage</h1>

To store your *KeePassXC* settings in the Persistent Storage,
in addition to the password database:

1. Turn on the [[Dotfiles|persistent_storage/configure#dotfiles]]
   feature of the Persistent Storage.

1. In the Welcome Screen, unlock the Persistent Storage.

1. In Tails, choose **Places**&nbsp;▸ **Dotfiles**.

1. Create the folder */live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/dotfiles/.config/keepassxc/*.

1. Copy the file */home/amnesia/.config/keepassxc/keepassxc.ini* to
   */live/persistence/TailsData_unlocked/dotfiles/.config/keepassxc/keepassxc.ini*.

1. Restart Tails before changing more settings.

<h1 id="2fa">Using <i>KeePassXC</i> as an authenticator app for two-factor authentication</h1>

Many websites offer two-factor authentication as a safer method than using just
a password. For example, you can configure an authentication app, like Google
Authenticator, to generate a one-time code of 6 digits when signing in to a
website.

You can use *KeePassXC* to generate such one-time codes in Tails. The
technology used to generate these codes is called [[!wikipedia time-based
one-time password]] (TOTP).

To configure two-factor authentication for an entry in your *KeePassXC*
database:

1. Click on the entry of your database for which you want to configure
   two-factor authentication.

1. Choose **Entries&nbsp;▸ TOTP&nbsp;▸ Set up TOTP&hellip;**.

For more detailed instructions, see [Adding TOTP to an
Entry](https://keepassxc.org/docs/KeePassXC_UserGuide#_adding_totp_to_an_entry)
in the official KeePassXC User Guide.

After two-factor authentication is configured for an entry, choose
**Entries&nbsp;▸ TOTP&nbsp;▸ Show TOTP** to generate a one-time code for this
entry.
