[[!meta title="Using VeraCrypt encrypted volumes"]]

[[!toc levels=2]]

Introduction to <span class="application">VeraCrypt</span>
==========================================================

<span class="application">[VeraCrypt](https://www.veracrypt.fr/)</span> is a
disk encryption tool that works on Windows, macOS, and Linux.

Comparison between <span class="application">LUKS</span> and <span class="application">VeraCrypt</span>
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can also create and open <span class="application">LUKS</span>
encrypted volumes in Tails. <span class="application">LUKS</span> is the
standard for disk encryption in Linux. [[See our documentation about
<span class="application">LUKS</span>.|encrypted_volumes]]

[[!inline pages="doc/encryption_and_privacy/luks_vs_veracrypt.inline" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

To create new <span class="application">VeraCrypt</span> volumes, do so
outside of Tails. See the step-by-step guides by Security-in-a-Box on
[VeraCrypt for Windows](https://securityinabox.org/en/tools/veracrypt/).

<a id="container-vs-partition"></a>

Difference between file containers and partitions
-------------------------------------------------

With <span class="application">VeraCrypt</span> you can store your files
encrypted in two different kinds of *volumes*:

<h3>File containers</h3>

<div class="icon">
[[!img container-icon.png link="no"]]
<div class="text">
<p>A file container is a single big file inside which you can store
several files encrypted, a bit like a ZIP file.</p>
</div>
</div>

<h3>Partitions or drives</h3>

<div class="icon">
[[!img partition-icon.png link="no"]]
<div class="text">
<p>Usually, drives (USB sticks and hard disks) have a single partition of their
entire size. This way, you can encrypt a whole USB stick, for example.
But, drives can also be split into several partitions.
</div>
</div>

<a id="parameters"></a>

Unlocking parameters
--------------------

To unlock a <span class="application">VeraCrypt</span> volume, you might need
the following parameters, depending on the options that were selected when the
volume was created:

- **Passphrase**

- **Keyfiles**: instead of or in addition to the passphrase, a
  <span class="application">VeraCrypt</span> volume can be unlocked using a
  particular file or set of files.

  [See the <span class="application">VeraCrypt</span> documentation on
  keyfiles.](https://www.veracrypt.fr/en/Keyfiles.html)

- **PIM**: a number that is needed if it was specified when creating the
  <span class="application">VeraCrypt</span> volume.

  [See the <span class="application">VeraCrypt</span> documentation on
  PIM.](https://www.veracrypt.fr/en/Personal%20Iterations%20Multiplier%20\(PIM\).html)

- **Hidden volume**: if you want to unlock the hidden volume inside the
  <span class="application">VeraCrypt</span> volume.

  [See the <span class="application">VeraCrypt</span> documentation on hidden
  volumes.](https://www.veracrypt.fr/en/Hidden%20Volume.html)

- **System volume**: if you want to unlock an encrypted Windows system partition.

  [See the <span class="application">VeraCrypt</span> documentation on
  encrypting a Windows system partition.](https://www.veracrypt.fr/en/System%20Encryption.html)

Using a file container
======================

[[!img container-icon.png link="no" alt=""]]

<a id="container-files"></a>

Unlocking a file container without keyfiles
-------------------------------------------

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Utilities</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenuitem">Unlock VeraCrypt Volumes</span></span>.

1. Click <span class="bold">Add</span> and choose the file container
   that you want to unlock.

1. Enter the parameters to unlock the volume. For more information, see
   the [[Unlocking parameters|veracrypt#parameters]] section above.

1. Click **Unlock**.

   <span class="application">Unlock VeraCrypt Volumes</span> unlocks your volume.

   If unlocking the volume fails (for example, if you mistyped the
   password), click on <span class="bold">Unlock</span> to try
   unlocking again.

1. Click <span class="bold">Open</span> to open the volume in the
   <span class="application">Files</span> browser.

<a id="container-disks"></a>

Unlocking a file container with keyfiles
----------------------------------------

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Utilities</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenuitem">Disks</span></span>
   to start the <span class="application">Disks</span> utility.

1. Choose **[[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="" class=symbolic link="no"]]&nbsp;▸
   Attach Disk Image&hellip;** from the top navigation bar.

1. In the <span class="bold">Select Disk Image to Attach</span> dialog:

   - Unselect the <span class="guilabel">Set up read-only loop device</span>
     check box in the bottom-left corner if you want to modify the content of
     the file container.

     [[!img read-only.png link="no" class="screenshot" alt=""]]

   - Choose <span class="guilabel">All Files</span> in the file filter in the
     bottom-right corner.

     [[!img all-files.png link="no" class="screenshot" alt=""]]

   - Navigate to the folder containing the file container that you want to open.

   - Select the file container and click <span class="bold">Attach</span>.

   An authentication dialog appears.

   [[!img authentication.png link="no" class="screenshot" alt="Authentication required"]]

1. Enter the parameters to unlock the volume. For more information, see
   the [[Unlocking parameters|veracrypt#parameters]] section above.

1. Click **Unlock**.

1. Open your *VeraCrypt* volumes from the **Places** menu.

Using a partition or drive
==========================

[[!img partition-icon.png link="no" alt=""]]

<h2 id="partition-external">Unlocking a partition on an external storage device</h2>

1. Plug in the USB stick or hard disk that you want to unlock.

   An authentication dialog appears.

   [[!img authentication.png link="no" class="screenshot" alt="Authentication required"]]

1. Enter the parameters to unlock the volume. For more information, see
   the [[Unlocking parameters|veracrypt#parameters]] section above.

1. Click **Unlock**.

1. Open your *VeraCrypt* volumes from the **Places** menu.

<h2 id="partition-internal">Unlocking a partition on an internal hard disk</h2>

1. When starting Tails, [[set up an administration password|doc/first_steps/welcome_screen/administration_password]].

1. Choose **Applications**&nbsp;▸ **Utilities**&nbsp;▸ **Disks** to start the
   *Disks* utility.

1. In the left pane, select the drive that corresponds to your hard disk.

1. In the right pane, select the partition that corresponds to your *VeraCrypt*
   volume.

   It should have an **Encrypted?** label.

1. Click the [[!img lib/unlock.png alt="Unlock
   selected encrypted partition" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
   button in the right pane.

   An authentication dialog appears.

1. Enter the parameters to unlock the volume. For more information, see
   the [[Unlocking parameters|veracrypt#parameters]] section above.

1. Click **Unlock**.

1. Select the file system that appears below the unlocked volume.

1. Click the [[!img lib/media-playback-start.png
   alt="Mount selected partition" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
   button to mount the volume.

1. Click on the */media/amnesia/* link in
   the right pane to open the volume in the
   *Files* browser.

<h2 id="eject">Ejecting a <i>VeraCrypt</i> volume</h2>

1. Choose **Applications**&nbsp;▸ **Files** to open the *Files* browser.

1. In the sidebar of the *Files* browser, click on the
   [[!img lib/media-eject.png alt="Eject" class="symbolic" link="no"]] button
   on the label of your *VeraCrypt* volume.
