[[!meta title="Emailing and reading news with Thunderbird"]]

Tails includes <span class="application">Thunderbird</span> for:

- Reading and writing emails

- Reading [[!wikipedia RSS]] and [[!wikipedia Atom_(Web_standard) desc="Atom"]] feeds for news and blogs

[[!toc levels=2]]

To start <span class="application">Thunderbird</span> choose
<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guisubmenu">Internet</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guimenuitem">Thunderbird</span></span>.

<div class="tip">

<p>To store your
emails, feeds, and settings across different working sessions,
turn on the [[Thunderbird Email Client|persistent_storage/configure#thunderbird]]
feature of the Persistent Storage.</p>

</div>

For more documentation, visit the official [*Thunderbird*
Support](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/products/thunderbird) website.

<div class="bug">

<p>The <a href="https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/instant-messaging-and-chat">chat
features of <i>Thunderbird</i></a> don't work in Tails.</p>

</div>

<h1 id="account">Configuring an email account</h1>

1. When starting <span class="application">Thunderbird</span> for the first
   time, an assistant appears to guide you through the process of
   configuring <span class="application">Thunderbird</span> to access your
   email account.

   <div class="tip">

   <p>To start this assistant again in the future from the main window of
   <span class="application">Thunderbird</span>, choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">[[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="Menu" class=symbolic link=no]]</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Account Settings</span>
   </span> and then, from the <span class="guilabel">Account Settings</span>
   dialog, choose <span class="guilabel">Account Actions</span>&nbsp;▸
   <span class="guilabel">Add Mail Account&hellip;</span>.</p>

   </div>

1. Enter your name, email address, and password into the corresponding fields.

1. Click <span class="guilabel">Continue</span>.

1. The assistant tries to configure automatically the correct settings
   to connect to your email provider based on your email address.

   If the automatic configuration fails, consult your email provider
   about how to configure your email account manually.

1. If the automatic configuration succeeds, you might have to specify
   which protocol to use to connect to your email provider, either
   <span class="guilabel">IMAP</span> or <span class="guilabel">POP</span>.

      - With <span class="guilabel">IMAP</span>,
        <span class="application">Thunderbird</span> constantly synchronizes
        with the server and displays the emails and folders that are
	currently stored on the server. IMAP is better suited if you access
        your emails from different operating systems.

      - With <span class="guilabel">POP</span>,
        <span class="application">Thunderbird</span> downloads the emails that
        are in the inbox on the server and possibly deletes them from the
	server. POP is better suited if you access your emails from Tails only
        and store them in the Persistent Storage.

   To know more, see also this [comparison between POP and
   IMAP](https://help.riseup.net/en/email/clients/#choose-imap-or-pop) by
   Riseup.

<div class="tip" id="gmail">

<h2>Gmail</h2>

<p>You can use your Gmail account with <i>Thunderbird</i> in Tails.</p>

<ol>
  <li>
    <p>Make sure that you have 2-Step Verification turned on in your Gmail account.</p>
    <p>See <a href="https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185839">Google Account Help: 2-Step Verification</a>.</p>
  </li>
  <li>
    <p>Configure the new account as IMAP when <i>Thunderbird</i> asks you to
    choose between POP and IMAP.</p>
  </li>
</ol>

</div>

<h1 id="news">Reading RSS and Atom news feeds</h1>

On top of reading emails, you can read news feeds that use the RSS and Atom
standards in *Thunderbird*.

To create a feed account:

1. Choose  **[[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="Menu" class=symbolic link=no]]</span>&nbsp;▸
   Account Settings** from the main window of *Thunderbird*.

1. In the **Account Settings** tab, choose **Account Actions&nbsp;▸ Add Feed
   Account**.

1. In the **Feed Account Wizard**, click **Next** and **Finish**.

   A new feed account named **Blogs & News Feeds** appears in the sidebar.

1. Click on the **Manage Subscriptions** button in the right pane.

1. In the **Feed Subscriptions** dialog, enter the URL of the news feed that
   you want to follow in the **Feed URL** field.

   For example, to subscribe to the Tails news feed, enter the following URL.

       https://tails.net/news/index.en.rss

   Sites often have a feed icon <i class="fa fa-rss"></i> that points to their
   RSS or Atom feed.

   If a site has no feed icon, right-click on the home or news page of the site
   and choose **View Page Source** in the shortcut menu. In the source of the
   page look for a link of type *application/rss+xml* or
   *application/atom+xml*. No all sites have a news feed.

   [[!wikipedia RSS]] and [[!wikipedia Atom (web standard) desc="Atom"]] are
   similar standards and their differences don't really matter to readers.

1. Click **Add**.

   *Thunderbird* verifies and downloads the content of the feed.

1. Close the **Feed Subscriptions** dialog and the **Account Settings** tab.

1. A new feed account named **Blogs & News Feeds** appears in the sidebar of
   the main window of *Thunderbird*.

<div class="note">

<p>For added security, emails and feeds in HTML format are displayed in plain
text and can become harder to read.</p>

</div>

<h1 id="privacy">Enhanced privacy</h1>

<span class="application">Thunderbird</span> in Tails is configured
for additional privacy and anonymity.

For example, <span class="application">Thunderbird</span> in Tails:

- Removes information about the language of your session or spellchecker
  from the headers of the emails that you send.

- Removes information that could identify you as a Tails user from the
  headers of your emails.

- Only allows secure protocols and disables insecure protocols, like
  SSLv3.

- Disables tracking technologies, like cookies and JavaScript, when
  viewing emails or feeds in HTML.

These enhancements are inherited
from the former
[*TorBirdy*](https://gitlab.torproject.org/legacy/trac/-/wikis/torbirdy)
extension.

<div class="caution">

<p>The email addresses that you write to are stored in your address book by
default.</p>

<p>To stop collecting outgoing email addresses automatically, open
<b>Settings&nbsp;▸ Composition</b> and turn off the option <b>Automatically add
outgoing email addresses to my collected addresses</b>.</p>

</div>

<h1 id="language">Using Thunderbird in your language</h1>

To use *Thunderbird* in another language, you can
install the <code>thunderbird-l10n-<span class="command-placeholder">lang</span></code>
package using the [[Additional Software|persistent_storage/additional_software]]
feature. Replace <span class="command-placeholder">lang</span> with the code
for your language. For example, `vi` for Vietnamese.

Tails already includes language packages for Arabic,
German, Spanish, Farsi, French, Hindi, Bahasa Indonesia, Italian,
Portuguese, Russian, Turkish, and Simplified Chinese.

[List of available *Thunderbird* language packages](https://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=thunderbird-l10n&searchon=names&suite=stable&section=all)

<h1 id="openpgp">OpenPGP encryption</h1>

<div class="next">

<p><i>GnuPG</i> and <i>[[Kleopatra|encryption_and_privacy/kleopatra]]</i>
allow you to work with OpenPGP encrypted text and files. Consider using
<i>Kleopatra</i> instead of <i>Thunderbird</i> if you want to exchange encrypted text and files, but
not by email.</p>

<p>The OpenPGP keys stored in <i>GnuPG</i> and <i>Kleopatra</i> are separate from the keys
stored in <i>Thunderbird</i>.</p>

</div>

<div class="note">

<p>Since Tails 4.13 (November 2020), <em>Thunderbird</em> 78 replaces the
<em>Enigmail</em> extension with built-in support for OpenPGP encryption. If
you used <em>Enigmail</em> before Tails 4.13, follow our [[migration
instructions|openpgp_migration]].</p>

</div>

See also the official [OpenPGP in Thunderbird - HOWTO and
FAQ](https://support.mozilla.org/kb/openpgp-thunderbird-howto-and-faq).

<h2 id="primary-password">Setting up a Primary Password (recommended)</h2>

In *Thunderbird*, OpenPGP private keys are not protected by a passphrase.
That's why we recommend that you set up a Primary Password.

With a Primary Password, your private key is encrypted in your
*Thunderbird* profile and is only unlocked while *Thunderbird* is running.
If your *Thunderbird* profile is stored in your Persistent Storage, then
your private key is encrypted twice: once by *Thunderbird* in your
profile and a second time by the encryption of the Persistent Storage.

1. Choose **[[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="Menu" class="symbolic"
   link="no"]]&nbsp;▸ Settings**.

1. Choose **Privacy & Security**.

1. In the **Passwords** section, select the option **Use a Primary
   Password**.

1. In the **Primary Password** dialog, enter your Primary Password
   and click **OK**.

<h2 id="import-private">Importing an existing private key</h2>

*Thunderbird* uses a different keyring than *GnuPG*.

If you already have an OpenPGP private key outside of *Thunderbird*, follow the
instructions below to export it from *GnuPG* and import it into *Thunderbird*.

<h3>Export your private key using <em>Kleopatra</em></h3>

From the desktop:

1. Choose **Applications&nbsp;▸ Accessories&nbsp;▸ Kleopatra**.

1. Select the private key that you want to migrate to *Thunderbird*.

1. Choose **File&nbsp;▸ Backup Secret Keys…** and save this private key to your
   *Home* directory.

1. Close *Kleopatra*.

<h3>Import your private key in <em>Thunderbird</em></h3>

In *Thunderbird*:

1. Choose **[[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="Menu" class="symbolic"
   link="no"]]&nbsp;▸ Account Settings**.

1. In the left pane, identify the account
   that corresponds to the private key that you want to import and
   choose **End-to-End Encryption**.

1. In the right pane, click the **Add Key…** button.

1. In the **Add a Personal OpenPGP Key** dialog, choose **Import an
   existing OpenPGP Key** and click **Continue**.

1. Click the **Select File to Import…** button and choose
   the private key that your exported from *Kleopatra*.

1. In the next dialog, make sure that your private key is listed and
   that the option **Treat this key as a Personal Key** is selected.

1. Click **Continue**, enter the passphrase for your private key (if
   any), and click **Continue** again.

   Your private key should now be listed in the **End-to-End
   Encryption** settings of your account.

1. Select your private key to enable OpenPGP encryption for this
   account.

<h2 id="generate-private">Generating a new OpenPGP private key</h2>

1. Choose **[[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="Menu" class="symbolic"
   link="no"]]&nbsp;▸ Account Settings**.

1. In the left pane, identify the account
   for which you want to create a new OpenPGP private key and
   choose **End-to-End Encryption**.

1. In the right pane, click the **Add Key…** button.

1. In the **Add a Personal OpenPGP Key** dialog, choose **Create a new
   OpenPGP Key**.

1. Review the settings in the next dialog, click the **Generate key** button,
   and then click **Confirm**.

   Your private key should now be listed in the **End-to-End
   Encryption** settings of your account.

<h2 id="encrypting">Encrypting an email</h2>

To prevent you from sending unencrypted emails by mistake, *Thunderbird*
in Tails is configured with the option **Enable encryption for new
messages** turned on by default in the account settings.

When composing an email:

- If the **Encrypt** toggle button is on, *Thunderbird* will encrypt the
  email before sending.

  *Thunderbird* warns you if you miss the key of some of the recipients
  or if you still have to accept some of their keys.

  Choose **Security**&nbsp;▸ **Key Assistant** to see the keys of the
  receipts and solve any issue.

- To send an unencrypted email, turn off the **Encrypt** toggle button.
