[[!meta title="Browsing the web with Tor Browser"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

<span class="application">[Tor Browser](https://www.torproject.org)</span> is a web
browser based on [Mozilla Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/firefox/) but configured
to protect your privacy.

[[!img lib/apps/tor-browser.png link=no alt=""]]

Sending your connections to websites through the Tor network is not
enough to totally protect you while browsing the web:

- Cookies can be used to track and identify you across different
  websites.

- Security vulnerabilities in JavaScript have been used to [deanonymize Tor Browser in the
  past](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/08/attackers-wield-firefox-exploit-to-uncloak-anonymous-tor-users/).

This is why *Tor Browser* integrates all kinds of security protections
inside the browser as well.

Some frequently asked questions about <span class="application">Tor Browser</span> can be found in
[[the FAQ|support/faq#browser]].

<h1 id="proxy">The proxy server is refusing connections</h1>

The following error message in *Tor Browser* means that Tails is not yet
connected to the Tor network:

    The proxy server is refusing connections

Make sure that you are:

1. [[Connected to a local network|anonymous_internet/networkmanager]]

1. [[Connected to the Tor network|anonymous_internet/tor]]

<h1 id="confinement">Security confinement</h1>

*Tor Browser* is only allowed to save the downloads and read the files that you
specify in the file chooser of GNOME.

For example, thanks to this confinement, even if an attacker manages to exploit
a security vulnerability in *Tor Browser*, they wouldn't be able to access all
the content of your Persistent Storage.

<div class="tip">

<p>To prevent Tails from running out of memory and crashing, download
very big files to the <i>Persistent</i> folder.
The files that you download outside of the Persistent Storage are
stored in memory (RAM), which is more limited.</p>

</div>

<div class="note">

<p>In [[Tails 6.14.1|news/version_6.14.1]] (April 2025), we improved the
previous confinement and you can now safely download to and read from any
folder in your <i>Home</i> folder or Persistent Storage.</p>

</div>

This confinement relies on 2 security technologies: *[[!debwiki AppArmor]]* and
the [XDG Desktop Portals](https://flatpak.github.io/xdg-desktop-portal/) of
*Flatpak*.

<div class="bug">

<p>When opening files from the <i>/usr</i> or <i>/etc</i> folders in Tor
Browser, Tor Browser displays the following error:</p>

<p class="command">Access to the file was denied</p>

</div>

<h1 id="fingerprint">Hiding that you are using <i>Tor Browser</i></h1>

It is impossible to hide to the websites that you visit that you are using Tor,
because the [list of exit nodes of the Tor network is
public](https://metrics.torproject.org/exonerator.html).

That is why many more websites ask you to solve a CAPTCHA when using *Tor
Browser*.

The anonymity provided by *Tor Browser* works by making all users look the same
to make it impossible to know who is who among the millions of users of *Tor
Browser*.

Tails tries to make it as difficult as possible for websites to distinguish
Tails users from other users of *Tor Browser*. If it was possible for a website
to determine whether you are a user of *Tor Browser* inside or outside of
Tails, this would provide a little bit more information about you and reduce
your anonymity.

The websites that you visit can retrieve a lot of information about your
browser, whether it's *Tor Browser* or a regular browser. This information is
called the *fingerprint* of the browser and includes the name and version of
the browser, the size of the window, the time zone, the available fonts, etc.

To make it difficult to distinguish Tails users from other users of *Tor
Browser*, *Tor Browser* in Tails tries to provide the same information as *Tor
Browser* on other operating systems.

<!--

Refer to the [[fingerprint section of our list of known issues
|support/known_issues#fingerprint]] to know if there are differences
between the fingerprints of <span class="application">Tor Browser</span> inside and outside of Tails.

-->

A difference is that Tails includes the *uBlock Origin* extension, which
removes advertisements. If an attacker can determine that you are not
downloading the advertisements that are included in a webpage, that could
reveal that you are a Tails user.

<div class="next">

<p>To hide to someone monitoring your Internet connection that you are
connecting to Tor, see our documentation about [[connecting to the Tor
network|tor]].</p>

</div>

<h1 id="https-everywhere">Secure connections with HTTPS</h1>

Using HTTPS instead of HTTP encrypts your communications with the website
and prevents the [[Tor exit node from intercepting your
communications|about/warnings/tor#exit]].

For example, here is how the browser looks when we try to log in to an email
account at [riseup.net](https://riseup.net/), using their [webmail
interface](https://mail.riseup.net/):

[[!img doc/anonymous_internet/Tor_Browser/riseup.png link=no alt=""]]

Notice the padlock icon on the left of the address bar saying "mail.riseup.net".
Notice also the address beginning with "https://" (instead of "http://"). These are the
indicators that an encrypted connection using [[!wikipedia HTTPS]] is being
used.

When you are sending or retrieving sensitive information (like passwords), you
should try to only use services providing HTTPS. Otherwise, it is very easy
for an eavesdropper to steal whatever information you are sending, or to
modify the content of a page on its way to your browser.

To learn more about HTTPS and how *Tor Browser* protects you, see:

* [Tor FAQ: HTTPS](https://support.torproject.org/https/)
* [Tor Browser User Manual: Secure Connections](https://tb-manual.torproject.org/secure-connections/)

<h1 id="javascript">Protection against dangerous JavaScript</h1>

Having all JavaScript disabled by default would disable a lot of harmless and
possibly useful JavaScript, and might render many websites unusable.

That is why JavaScript is enabled by default but
<span class="application">Tor Browser</span> disables all potentially
dangerous JavaScript. We consider this as a necessary compromise between
security and usability.

<div class="note">

<p>To understand better the behavior of <span class="application">Tor
Browser</span>, for example, regarding JavaScript and cookies, you can
refer to the <a href="https://2019.www.torproject.org/projects/torbrowser/design/">
<span class="application">Tor Browser</span> design document</a>.</p>

</div>

<h1 id="security-level">Security level</h1>

You can change the security level of <span class="application">Tor Browser</span>
to disable browser features as a trade-off between security and usability.
For example, you can set the security level to *Safest* to disable JavaScript completely.

The security level is set to *Standard* by default which gives
the most usable experience.

To change the security level, click on the [[!img security-level.png
class="symbolic" link="no"]] icon on the right of the address bar
and choose **Settings&hellip;**.

[[!img security-levels.png link="no" alt=""]]

<div class="note">

<p>You can safely disregard the message, "Your browser is being managed by
your organization," which appears in the
<span class="application">Tor Browser</span> preferences.</p>

<p>All this message means is that the automatic updates feature of
<span class="application">Tor Browser</span> has been disabled. This is done
intentionally in Tails to make sure that no security feature or configuration
gets broken by automatic updates of
<span class="application">Tor Browser</span>.</p>

</div>

<h1 id="circuit-view">Tor circuit</h1>

[[!img circuit-view.png link=no]]

Click on the
padlock
in the address bar to show the Tor circuit that is used to connect to
the website in the current tab, its 3 relays, their countries, and IP
addresses.

The last relay in the circuit, the one immediately above the
destination website, is the *exit relay*. Its
country might influence how the website behaves.

Click on the
<span class="guilabel">[[New Tor circuit for this site|Tor_Browser#circuit-view]]</span> button
to use a different circuit.

You can use
<span class="application">[[Onion Circuits|doc/anonymous_internet/tor/circuits]]</span>
to get more detailed information about the circuits being used.

<h1 id="new-identity"><span class="guilabel">New Identity</span> feature</h1>

To switch to a new identity, choose [[!img lib/open-menu.png alt="Open Application Menu"
class="symbolic" link="no"]]&nbsp;▸ **New identity**.

The New Identity feature of
<i>Tor Browser</i>:

- Closes all open tabs.

- Clears the session state including cache, history, and cookies.

- Closes all existing web connections and creates new Tor circuits.

<div class="caution">

<p>This feature is not enough to strongly [[separate contextual identities|about/warnings/identity#contextual]]
as the Tor circuits used ouside of
<i>Tor Browser</i> are not changed.</p>

<p>Restart Tails instead.</p>

</div>

For more details, see the [design and implementation of the Tor Browser](https://2019.www.torproject.org/projects/torbrowser/design/#new-identity).

<h1 id="noscript">NoScript to have even more control over JavaScript</h1>

<span class="application">Tor Browser</span> includes the
<span class="application">NoScript</span> extension to:

- Protect from more JavaScript attacks. For example, cross-site
  scripting (XSS) attacks.

- Allow you to disable JavaScript completely on some websites only.

For more information, you can refer to the NoScript
[website](http://noscript.net/) and [features](http://noscript.net/features).

<h1 id="letterboxing">Letterboxing</h1>

[[!img letter-boxing.png link=no alt=""]]

The letterboxing feature of <span class="application">Tor Browser</span> helps
to prevent websites from identifying your browser based on the size of its window.
Without letterboxing, websites could use
the size of the browser window to track visitors or weaken your anonymity.

The letterboxing feature of <span class="application">Tor Browser</span> works
by adding gray margins to the browser window when the window is resized. The
webpage remains as close as possible to the desired size without revealing the
actual size of the window.
