[[!meta robots="noindex"]]

1. Start <span class="application">GNOME Disks</span> (also called
   <span class="application">Disks</span>).

   <div class="linux">
     For example, you can press the <b>Super</b> ([[!img lib/start.png class="symbolic" link="no" alt=""]]) key,
     then type <code>disks</code> and choose <b>Disks</b>.
   </div>
   <div class="upgrade">
   Choose <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Utilities</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Disks</span></span>.
   </div>

   [[!img install/inc/icons/gnome-disks.png link="no" alt=""]]

1. Plug in the <span class="upgrade">intermediary</span> USB stick <span class="linux">on which you want to install Tails</span>.

   <div class="caution"><p>All the data on this USB stick will be lost.</p></div>

   <div class="note upgrade"><p>The Persistent Storage of your Tails USB stick will not be
   copied to the temporary Tails.</p></div>

   A new drive appears in the left pane. Click on it.

   [[!img install/inc/screenshots/gnome_disks_drive.png link="no" class="screenshot" alt=""]]

1. Click on the
   [[!img lib/view-more.png alt="Drive Options" class="symbolic" link="no"]] button in
   the title bar and choose **Restore Disk Image**.

   [[!img install/inc/screenshots/gnome_disks_menu.png link="no" class="screenshot" alt=""]]

1. In the <span class="guilabel">Restore Disk Image</span> dialog, click on
   the file selector button.

   Choose the USB image that you downloaded earlier.

   <div class="note">
   <p>Make sure that the USB image is called <i>[[!inline pages="inc/stable_amd64_img_filename" raw="yes" sort="age"]]</i> and has an
   <i>.img</i> file extension.</p>

   <p>If the image has an <i>.iso</i> file
   extension, it is the wrong image. Please go back to the
   <span class="linux">[[download step|linux#download]].</span>
   <span class="upgrade-tails">[[download step|upgrade/tails#download]].</span>
   <span class="upgrade-linux">[[download step|upgrade/linux#download]].</span></p>
   </div>

1. Click the **Start Restoring** button.

1. In the confirmation dialog click <span class="bold">Restore</span>.

   Depending on your Linux distribution, you might be asked for your
   administration password.

   The installation takes a few minutes.

1. After the installation is finished, click on the
   [[!img lib/media-eject.png alt="Eject" class="symbolic" link="no"]] button.
