[[!meta title="Release Manager"]]
[[!meta robots="noindex"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

<a id="duties"></a>

# Duties

See <https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/team/-/wikis/responsibilities>.

<a id="shift"></a>

# Shift

## In the beginning of your shift

- Check the [Tor Browser release
  schedule](https://gitlab.torproject.org/tpo/applications/tor-browser/-/wikis/Release-Schedule). `[skip-if-emergency-release]`. In doubt, check the [logs from their last meeting](http://meetbot.debian.net/tor-meeting/).

- Check the Firefox release calendars: `[skip-if-emergency-release]`

  * [Google calendar](https://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=mozilla.com_2d37383433353432352d3939%40resource.calendar.google.com)

  * [Firefox Release Calendar](https://whattrainisitnow.com/calendar/)

- Reply to the email sent to <tails-dev@boum.org> and
  <tails-l10n@boum.org> by the RM for the previous release,
  to provide information they could not, if any, such as: `[skip-if-emergency-release]`

  - Code freeze date, if it's different from what's in the email sent by the previous RM.

  - If this will be a major release: the release schedule for its RC.

- Update [[contribute/calendar]] accordingly.

- Check if there's a
  [[!tails_gitlab groups/tails/-/milestones desc="GitLab milestone"]]
  with the correct due date. If it is not, create a merge request against
  [[!tails_gitlab tails/gitlab-config]] to fix it.

- Create an issue with the `Tails Team` label,
  about upgrading Tor Browser in the release your shift is about.

- Ensure there's [an issue about
  writing the release notes](https://gitlab.tails.boum.org/tails/tails/-/issues?scope=all&state=opened&label_name[]=Core%20Work%3ATechnical%20writing&search=release+notes). This also applies to betas and release
  candidates, so you might create multiple such issues during one
  shift. Set `Write release notes for $VERSION` as title, and make
  clear that the deadline is the same as for manual QA (so 10:00 UTC
  in general).

- Verify there's a `missed:$VERSION` label
  on [[!tails_gitlab groups/tails/-/labels]]; if there's none,
  submit a MR against [[!tails_gitlab tails/gitlab-config]]
  to create one.

- The ISO images for *every* previous beta, RC, and final release
  based on the version of Debian that will be used for the release
  you'll be preparing.

  To get the list of images you'll need, run:

        ./bin/iuk-source-versions VERSION_YOU_WILL_RELEASE

  For example, if you're preparing 4.4, you need the ISO images
  for 4.0~beta1, 4.0~beta2, 4.0~rc1, 4.0, 4.1, 4.1.1, 4.2, 4.2.2, and 4.3.

  I.e. you can run this inside `isos.git`:

        git annex sync --no-content
        (cd ${TAILS_GIT_REPO:?}; ./bin/iuk-source-versions "${VERSION:?}" | tr ' ' '\n' | sed -e 's/^/tails-amd64-/') | xargs -r git annex get

- Ensure someone will be able to do the bare metal part of the manual QA

  This requires spare hardware with UEFI and legacy BIOS support.

  1. Either commit to do the release in a location where you can easily
     do these tests yourself. Else:
  2. Ensure someone else is able to commit to do these tests. If that fails:
  3. Worst case, ensure you will bring the needed hardware with you,
     wherever you'll prepare the release.

- Ensure the next steps are tracked in your preferred personal
  organization tool.

## Two weeks after the beginning of your shift

- Check that enough developers have booked time for manual tests.

## The Tuesday before the release date

### Take care of TBB upgrade

Ask the Tor Browser developers when they expect they'll have
tarballs ready.

Rationale: we need to coordinate our Tails release with the Tor Browser
developers to make sure that the Tor Browser we plan to include in our
release is ready in time for when we build the release image. The
Friday prior to the release is a good candidate, since it's
around this time they usually release tarballs for testing, and it
will still give some time for us to improvise according to their
"delayed" schedule and arrange a contingency plan (e.g. possibly
delaying our release a day or two). Asking for a status report a day
or two earlier than Friday *in addition* won't hurt, too.

<div class="note">

Note: the Tor Browser team Cc's tails-dev@boum.org when sending QA
requests to tor-qa@lists.torproject.org which makes this easier.
We are also often notified of any last last-minute rebuilds, better
ask explicitly the Tor Browser team what their plans are.

</div>

As soon as the new *Tor Browser* tarballs are ready, you may import
them in a topic branch and trigger CI runs, which will save you
some precious time on pre-release Monday. See the
[[Upgrading the Tor Browser|contribute/release_process/tor-browser]]
page for details.

### Make sure your build setup works

This is not a mandatory step. However, it's suggested that you do this, especially if more than a week passed
since you build a Tails image.

You just need to make sure that `rake build` will work, so on Monday you can expect less glitches to happen.

## Make the release happen

No kidding. See [[contribute/release_process]].

<a id="emergency-release"></a>

# Emergency release

This section documents what differs, when preparing an emergency release,
from publishing a scheduled release.

### Making decisions

When an event prompts us to wonder whether we shall prepare an emergency
release, we have to make 2 decisions:

#### Will we publish an emergency release?

First, create an issue about this question. **Do not** leak
any information that was shared with us privately.

These stakeholders must be part of the decision-making process:

 - release managers: determine whether we have the capacity to prepare an
   emergency release, and when; privately share confidential information that
   other stakeholders need to do their job

 - developers i.e. Tails Team: assess the risk that the emergency release would
   cancel or mitigate, using our [[security issue response
   policy|contribute/security_policy]]; propose mitigation measures that we
   could recommend to users.

   Sometimes (for example when a DSA for the Linux kernel is out) assessing the
   severity is quite of a long process, because the DSA page could reference
   dozens of CVEs. To simplify this, you can use `nvd-info.py`.
   Here is some good queries to get you started:

     - `./bin/nvd-info.py search --vector 'AV:[^P]' --vector '[CI]:[MH]' "${listOfCVEs[@]}"`

       - `AV:[^P]` means: attack does not require physical access
       - `[CI]:[MH]` means: at least 1 among "confidentiality impact" and "integrity impact" must be medium or high

     - `./bin/nvd-info.py search --description 'privileg|escalat' "${listOfCVEs[@]}"`

   To build your own queries, see the
   [available metrics](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln-metrics/cvss/v3-calculator).

 - UX: evaluate the acceptability of mitigation measures proposed by
   developers; remind everyone else that any extra upgrade has a UX cost

 - technical writers: determine whether we have the capacity
   to document mitigation measures, and when

If we decide to publish an emergency release, say so on the aforementioned
issue, then read on. Else, explain why on the aforementioned issue,
and close it with the _Rejected_ label.

#### When will we prepare and publish it? (if we decided to go ahead)

This mostly depends on the availability of release managers and manual
testers. Privately reach out to them, asking when they could do their part of
the work. Then, release managers make this decision.

### Additional steps

After going through the steps listed in the "In the beginning of your shift" section:

1. Move to the milestone that was just created for the emergency release
   every:

    - issue that was resolved
    - merge request that was merged

   … and that currently have the milestone of the next planned non-emergency
   bugfix release. In other words, since every change that is on the `stable`
   branch, but not released yet, will be released for the first time in this
   upcoming emergency release, it must have the milestone of that
   emergency release.

   This ensures the generated changelog will include these changes, and ensures
   we have a correct record of which release presumably fixed which bug (that's
   useful for example when triaging bug reports).

   To do so, on each of these 2 pages:

    - [[!tails_gitlab tails/tails/-/issues?state=closed desc="issues"]]
    - [[!tails_gitlab tails/tails/-/merge_requests?state=merged desc="merge requests"]]

   Do this:

   1. Filter by milestone = the next planned non-emergency bugfix release

   2. Click *Bulk edit*

   3. Select all items

   4. Set the milestone of the emergency release

2. Announce to <tails-dev@boum.org>:

    - There's an upcoming emergency release. Don't say why if it's a secret.

    - Announce the code freeze.

3. Announce to manual testers: when you expect the tests to happen

### Irrelevant steps

Steps that are not relevant for emergency releases are tagged
`[skip-if-emergency-release]`.

### Timing

By definition, an emergency release happens under timing constraints that are
different from a scheduled release. To account for this, ignore timing
indications below such as "Two weeks after" or "The Friday": assume everything
is relevant shall happen as soon as reasonably possible.
