[[!meta title="System requirements and recommended hardware"]]

Summary
=======

- Tails works on:

  * Most PC computers that are less than 10 years old
  * Some older Mac computers with an Intel processor

- Tails does not work:

  * Newer Mac computers with an Apple processor (M1 or M2)
  * Smartphones or tablets
  * Raspberry Pi

- Tails might not work on:

  * Some older computers, for example, if they don't have 2 GB of RAM.

  * Some newer computers, for example, if their [[graphics card is incompatible with Linux|support/known_issues/graphics]].
    Nvidia or AMD Radeon cards often do not work in Tails.

<p>See our [[list of known hardware compatibility
issues|support/known_issues]].</p>

</div>

Detailed hardware requirements
==============================

- A USB stick of 8 GB minimum or a recordable DVD.

  All the data on this USB stick or DVD is lost when installing Tails.

- The ability to start from a USB stick or a DVD reader.

- A 64-bit [[!wikipedia x86-64]] [[!wikipedia IBM PC compatible]]
  processor.

  * Tails does not works on
    [[!wikipedia ARM_architecture desc="ARM"]] or
    [[!wikipedia PowerPC]] processors.

  * Tails does not work on 32-bit computers since [[Tails 3.0|news/Tails_3.0_will_require_a_64-bit_processor]] (June 2017).

- 2 GB of RAM to work smoothly.

  Tails can work with less than 2 GB RAM but might behave strangely or crash.

Recommended hardware
====================

Laptop models evolve too rapidly for us to be able to provide an up-to-date
list of recommended hardware. Below are some guidelines if you, or your
organization, are considering acquiring a laptop dedicated to running Tails.

### For PC

- Avoid "gaming" models with Nvidia or AMD Radeon graphics cards.

- Consider buying a refurbished laptop from a high-end (professional) series.
  These are cheaper and will last longer than new but lower-quality laptops.

  * For example, the Lenovo ThinkPad series work well with Tails,
    including the X250, X1 Carbon, T440, T480, and T490 models.

  * If you live in a part of the world where buying refurbished laptops is
    uncommon, look on eBay and Amazon. Amazon offers a 90-day [Amazon Renewed
    Guarantee](https://www.amazon.com/gp/help/customer/display.html?nodeId=G4ZAA22U35N373NX).

- Consider buying a new laptop from vendors who guarantee the compatibility
  with Linux and Tails like [ThinkPenguin](https://www.thinkpenguin.com/).

### For Mac

Unfortunately, we don't know of any Mac model that works well in Tails and can
run the latest macOS version.

<!--

To update the list of Mac computer:

1. Store an archive of WhisperBack reports from the last 6 months in a folder.

2. Decrypt all the reports:

   ~/Tails/blueprints/stats/whisperback_scripts/decrypt.rb

3. Extract the list of computer models:

   ~/Tails/blueprints/stats/whisperback_scripts/content_of.rb "/usr/sbin/dmidecode -s system-product-name" > machines

4. Sort and count identical models:

   grep -v Bug_report machines | sort | uniq -c | sort -rhk 1 > top

5. Share WhisperBack reports number with the Tails team and ask them to
   evaluate hardware compatibility hints in those reports.

   While analyzing the reports corresponding from each model, FT should:

   - Check whether they were sent from the same email address, if any

   - Check whether the wlan0 interface was the same hardware device

   - Check whether the report was about hardware compatibility issues

6. Check whether these Mac models still support the latest version of macOS.

To update the list of PC computers:

- Check what's commonly available with refurbishing companies.

- Ask assembly@ for models.

-->
