[[!meta title="Resetting a USB stick using Linux"]]

[[!inline pages="doc/reset.intro" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

[[!toc levels=1]]

<a id="disks"></a>

Using the *Disks* utility
=========================

<div class="caution">

<p><b>You might overwrite any hard disk on the computer.</b></p>

<p>If at some point you are not sure about which device to choose, stop proceeding.</p>

</div>

1. Make sure that the USB stick that you want to reset is unplugged.

1. Choose **Applications**&nbsp;▸ **Utilities**&nbsp;▸ **Disks** to start the
   *Disks* utility.

   A list of all the storage devices on the computer appears in the left pane
   of the window.

1. Plug in the USB stick that you want to reset.

   A new device appears in the list of storage devices. This new device
   corresponds to the USB stick that you plugged in. Click on it.

1. In the right pane of the window, verify that the device corresponds
   to the USB stick that you want to reset, its brand, its size, etc.

1. To reset the USB stick, click on the [[!img lib/view-more.png alt="Drive Options" class="symbolic" link="no"]] button
   in the title bar and choose **Format Disk**
   to erase all the existing partitions on the device.

1. In the **Format Disk** dialog:

   - If you want to overwrite all data on the device, choose **Overwrite
     existing data with zeroes** in the **Erase** menu.

     <div class="caution">

     <p>Overwriting existing data does not erase all data on flash
     memories, such as USB sticks and SSDs (Solid-State Drives).</p>

     <p>See the [[limitations of file deletion|doc/encryption_and_privacy/secure_deletion#spare]].</p>

     </div>

   - Choose **Compatible with all systems and devices (MBR/DOS)** in the
     **Partitioning** menu.

1. Click **Format**.

1. In the confirmation dialog, click **Format** to confirm.

1. To make sure that all the changes are written to the USB stick, click on the
   [[!img lib/media-eject.png alt="Eject" class="symbolic" link="no"]]
   button in the title bar.

Resetting a Tails USB stick from itself
=======================================

If Tails is your only Linux system, you can generally reset a Tails USB stick
directly from that USB stick while running Tails.

1.  When starting Tails, add the `toram` boot
    option in the *Boot Loader*.

    See [[using the *Boot Loader*|advanced_topics/boot_options]].

2.  If Tails starts as usual, follow the instructions for [[resetting a USB stick
    using the *Disks* utility|linux#disks]].

    **If the system fails to start**, that means that the computer does not have
    enough memory for this operation mode. Try with another computer, or find
    another Linux system, such as another Tails USB stick, to do the reset from.
