[[!meta title="Resetting a USB stick using Windows"]]

[[!inline pages="doc/reset.intro" raw="yes" sort="age"]]

<div class="caution">

<p><b>You might overwrite any hard disk on the computer.</b></p>

<p>If at some point you are not sure about which device to choose, stop proceeding.</p>

</div>

Erase Tails from the USB stick
==============================

First, erase Tails from the USB stick:

1. Make sure that the USB stick that you want to reset is unplugged.

1. Open the **Start** ([[!img lib/start.png class="symbolic" link="no" alt=""]]) menu.

1. Choose **Windows System**&nbsp;▸ **Command Prompt**.

1. Execute the following command to start the *Diskpart* utility.

   <p class="command-windows">diskpart</p>

1. Execute the following command to obtain information about the disks in the
   computer.

   <p class="command-windows">list disk</p>

   For example:

       Diskpart> list disk

         Disk ###  Status      Size     Free     Dyn  Gpt
         --------  ----------  -------  -------  ---  ---
         Disk 0    Online        80 GB      0 B

1. Plug in the USB stick that you want to reset.

1. Run the same command again.

   <p class="command-windows">list disk</p>

   A new disk, which corresponds to the USB stick that you plugged in,
   appears in the list.

   For example:

        Diskpart> list disk

          Disk ###  Status      Size     Free     Dyn  Gpt
          --------  ----------  -------  -------  ---  ---
          Disk 0    Online        80 GB      0 B
          Disk 1    Online         8 GB      0 B

   Make sure that its size corresponds to the size of the USB stick that you want to
   reset. Note down its disk number.

   In this example, the disk number of the USB stick is 1.
   Yours might be different.

1. Execute the following command to select the USB stick. Replace
   <span class="command-placeholder">number</span> with the disk number found
   in step 7.

   <p class="command-windows command-template">select disk=<span class="command-placeholder">number</span></p>

1. Execute the following command to delete the partition table from the USB
   stick.

   <p class="command-windows">clean</p>

Create a new partition on the USB stick
=======================================

Then, create a new partition on the USB stick:

1. Execute the following command to create a new partition table on the USB
   stick.

   <p class="command-windows">convert mbr</p>

1. Execute the following command to create a new primary partition on the USB
   stick.

   <p class="command-windows">create partition primary</p>

1. Unplug the USB stick.

1. Plug the USB stick again.

1. A dialog appears to format the disk before using it.

   [[!img format.png link="no" class="screenshot" alt="You need to format the disk before you can use it. Do you want to format it?"]]

1. Click on the **Format disk** button.

1. In the **Format USB Drive** dialog, review the settings and click **Start**.

1. After the formatting is complete, the USB stick should appear as a new drive
   in the files browser.

   Otherwise, try unplugging and plugging it again.

Troubleshooting
===============

- [How to start the *Command Prompt*](https://www.computerhope.com/issues/chdos.htm)

- [Microsoft: diskpart](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/diskpart)
