[[!meta title="Shape Tails' future today!"]]
[[!meta date="Mon, 18 Nov 2024 00:00:00 +0000"]]
[[!pagetemplate template="news.tmpl"]]
[[!tag announce]]

📢 It’s that time of year again when we emerge from our encrypted shells to ask
for your support!

2024 has been a life-changing year for Tails. We’ve continued doing what we do
best -- developing Tails as an accessible shield for privacy, anonymity, and
anti-censorship. And you may have heard: [[we merged operations with the Tor
Project|/news/tails_tor]].

✊ This transition couldn’t have come at a more critical time for online and
offline freedoms. Civil society is contracting, liberatory struggles are being
silenced, and investigative journalists are being surveilled through
increasingly sophisticated tools. In this landscape, our merger with the Tor
Project isn’t just about operational efficiencies. By joining forces, we are
strategically strengthening the infrastructure necessary for responding to
these evolving challenges.

[[!img index/camping.svg link=\"no\" alt=\"\"]]

# How you can help

- Make a donation: Donate through any of the [[channels listed on our
  website|donate]].

- Double your impact: Many corporations match employees’ donations to
  charitable organisations. Ask your employer if they do, and if they don't --
  ask why! Search for our fiscal host, Riseup Labs, and specify Tails in your
  donation.

- Spread the word: Share this fundraiser with your network! We are on
  [X](https://twitter.com/Tails_live). 

While we’ve joined the Tor Project, all contributions during this campaign will
be used for Tails-related activities.

Together, we can ensure that everyone -- regardless of their circumstances --
has access to the tech they need to stay safe, secure, and free.

[[Donate]]
